README.md, before:

# Anikit

Animation Toolkit for CSS Animation, SMIL, JavaScript and WebGL. Currently in draft stage.


## Introduction

AniKit.js ( アニキト / 兄貴止, ANImation KITs ) is a collection of animations that provides in formats including CSS, JS and GLSL functions. It focuses on animations that could be accomplished with affine transformation and changing opacities.

All animations are defined under src/kits/ as separated files, extend ldEditor "mod" structure with following:

 * name: animation name
 * type: must be "animation"
 * preset: predefined configurations, use to generate different animation from this kit. in following format:
   {
     "animation-name": {
       configs...
       origin: [x, y, z], (optional)
       local: { not-exposed-configs... }
       prop: (f, c, i)  (optional)
       value: (t, c, i) (optional)
     }, ...
   }
 * edit: ldEditor style edit object. default value:
   - speed: animation speed
   
 * affine: function. Optional. return specific attributes in js-accessible format.
   - input:
     - time - current time for animation. usually bewteen 0 and 1.
     - opt - configuration derived from edit object.
   - output: object with following attributes:
     - transform: return 4x4 matrix, in the form of a 16-elements array.
     - opacity: return float, between 0 ~ 1.
     - transform-origin: return a 2-elements array, representing (x,y) coord for transform-origin.
       units in %, in float ( 0 ~ 1 maps to 0% ~ 100% )

 * css: function. return css animation keyframes.
   - input:
     - opt - configuration derived from edit object. must have an additional field "name" for animation name.
   - output: named css animation with keyframes.

 * js: funciton(Optional). return css style object which could be applied directly into element's style object.
   - input:
     - time - current time for animation. usually between 0 and 1.
     - opt - configuration derived from edit object.
   - output: style object.

 * glsl: function(Optional). for using animation directly in GLSL. TBD.
   - input: none.
   - output: String representing desired GLSL function.
     - glsl function(float time, 0, vec4 config1, vec4 config2) return mat3 for affine transformation.
     - glsl function(float time, 1, vec4 config1, vec4 config2) return float for opacity.
     - default opts:
       * name: function name.

## USAGE

 * in NodeJS:
   - npm install loadingio/anikit
   - require("anikit");

 * Get Kit:
   - kit = new anikit("kit-name");

 * Apply CSS Animation over HTML Node:
   - kit.animate(node, opt); // opt is optional

 * Remove CSS Animation from HTML Node:
   - kit.statify(node); 

 * Apply JS Animation over HTML Node:
   - kit.animate(node, time, opt); // opt is optional

 * Apply THREEJS Animation over THREE.Mesh:
   - kit.animate-three(mesh, time, opt); // opt is optional

 * Setting transform origin:
   - kit.origin(node, root, option);

 * Update kit config:
   - kit.setConfig(opt);

 * Get animate mod object directly:
   - {mod, config} = anikit.get("kit-name")

 * generate CSS Animation with custom config:
   - anikit.get("kit-name").mod.css({ ... });

## Timing Consideration

All these animations include speed and repeat information in their configuration:
  * speed: speed of animation. equals to 1/duration, which duration is in seconds. default to be 1.
  * repeat: play count of animation. 0 means infinite, loop forever. default to be 0.

According to repeat count and timing, there are several types of animations:
 * the whole animation is defined between 0 ~ 1 sec, with different repeat count:
   * repeat = 0: loop animation: loop seamlessly forever. ( start frame = end frame )
   * repeat = 1: transitional animation: play only once, mainly for exiting or entering means. (sprite is gone either in start(entering) or end(exiting) frame )
   * repeat = 1 ~ n: hint animation: play several times then stop. (start frame = end frame )
 * the whole animation is defined in arbitrary time. -infinity ~ infinity
   * repeat = -1: endless, non-repeatable animation, deterministic for each time t.

to better suppot all kinds of animation, always provide time t begining with 0 to tell Anikit that the animation is just started, and increase it according to the elapsed time in the following animate-js and animate-three call.

## Building

anikit provides two bundles:
 * JS Bundle - all kits and anikit core function, in one file.
 * CSS Bundle - predefined CSS Animations with ld-[name] structure. will be used to replace loading.css and transition.css.


## Configuration

Anikit object support following configurations:

 * name - animation name
 * repeat - repeat count. 0 for infinite
 * dur - animation duration. default 1s
 * animation-dir - animation direction. default normal
 * origin - origin of animation transformation. default [0.5, 0.5]

Config could be overwritten by options when calling animate function, e.g.,

`
    kit.animate obj, {dur: 2}
`


## TODO

 * following animation from loading.css are still not implemented:
   - spin/flip.ls
   - other/
     - bounce-ltr-alt.ls
     - bounce-rtl-alt.ls
     - bounce-a-alt.ls
     - bounce-a.ls
     - bounce-rtl.ls
     - bounce-ltr.ls
     - slot.ls
     - leaf.ls
 * implement "set-kit" - animation set for operating multiple elements at one time.
 * fully support glsl, perhaps in glslify style


## MISC

 * transform-box: fill-box inconsistent result - seems to be browser bug. 
   following samples give inconsistent result about circle position when scale reaches 0.5, which should be all the same:
   - g(style="animation:scale 1s linear;transform-origin:20px 20px;transform-box:fill-box"): circle(r="20")
     style @keyframes scale { 0% { transform: scale(1); } 100%: {transform: scale(0.5); }}
   - g(style="transform:scale(0.5);transform-origin:20px 20px;transform-box:fill-box"): circle(r="20")
   - g(style="transform:scale(0.5);transform-origin:50%;transform-box:fill-box"): circle(r="20")


## LICENSE

MIT

Commit message:

add todo for fixing animation bug in js and webgl

README.md, after:

# Anikit

Animation Toolkit for CSS Animation, SMIL, JavaScript and WebGL. Currently in draft stage.


## Introduction

AniKit.js ( アニキト / 兄貴止, ANImation KITs ) is a collection of animations that provides in formats including CSS, JS and GLSL functions. It focuses on animations that could be accomplished with affine transformation and changing opacities.

All animations are defined under src/kits/ as separated files, extend ldEditor "mod" structure with following:

 * name: animation name
 * type: must be "animation"
 * preset: predefined configurations, use to generate different animation from this kit. in following format:
   {
     "animation-name": {
       configs...
       origin: [x, y, z], (optional)
       local: { not-exposed-configs... }
       prop: (f, c, i)  (optional)
       value: (t, c, i) (optional)
     }, ...
   }
 * edit: ldEditor style edit object. default value:
   - speed: animation speed
   
 * affine: function. Optional. return specific attributes in js-accessible format.
   - input:
     - time - current time for animation. usually bewteen 0 and 1.
     - opt - configuration derived from edit object.
   - output: object with following attributes:
     - transform: return 4x4 matrix, in the form of a 16-elements array.
     - opacity: return float, between 0 ~ 1.
     - transform-origin: return a 2-elements array, representing (x,y) coord for transform-origin.
       units in %, in float ( 0 ~ 1 maps to 0% ~ 100% )

 * css: function. return css animation keyframes.
   - input:
     - opt - configuration derived from edit object. must have an additional field "name" for animation name.
   - output: named css animation with keyframes.

 * js: funciton(Optional). return css style object which could be applied directly into element's style object.
   - input:
     - time - current time for animation. usually between 0 and 1.
     - opt - configuration derived from edit object.
   - output: style object.

 * glsl: function(Optional). for using animation directly in GLSL. TBD.
   - input: none.
   - output: String representing desired GLSL function.
     - glsl function(float time, 0, vec4 config1, vec4 config2) return mat3 for affine transformation.
     - glsl function(float time, 1, vec4 config1, vec4 config2) return float for opacity.
     - default opts:
       * name: function name.

## USAGE

 * in NodeJS:
   - npm install loadingio/anikit
   - require("anikit");

 * Get Kit:
   - kit = new anikit("kit-name");

 * Apply CSS Animation over HTML Node:
   - kit.animate(node, opt); // opt is optional

 * Remove CSS Animation from HTML Node:
   - kit.statify(node); 

 * Apply JS Animation over HTML Node:
   - kit.animate(node, time, opt); // opt is optional

 * Apply THREEJS Animation over THREE.Mesh:
   - kit.animate-three(mesh, time, opt); // opt is optional

 * Setting transform origin:
   - kit.origin(node, root, option);

 * Update kit config:
   - kit.setConfig(opt);

 * Get animate mod object directly:
   - {mod, config} = anikit.get("kit-name")

 * generate CSS Animation with custom config:
   - anikit.get("kit-name").mod.css({ ... });

## Timing Consideration

All these animations include speed and repeat information in their configuration:
  * speed: speed of animation. equals to 1/duration, which duration is in seconds. default to be 1.
  * repeat: play count of animation. 0 means infinite, loop forever. default to be 0.

According to repeat count and timing, there are several types of animations:
 * the whole animation is defined between 0 ~ 1 sec, with different repeat count:
   * repeat = 0: loop animation: loop seamlessly forever. ( start frame = end frame )
   * repeat = 1: transitional animation: play only once, mainly for exiting or entering means. (sprite is gone either in start(entering) or end(exiting) frame )
   * repeat = 1 ~ n: hint animation: play several times then stop. (start frame = end frame )
 * the whole animation is defined in arbitrary time. -infinity ~ infinity
   * repeat = -1: endless, non-repeatable animation, deterministic for each time t.

to better suppot all kinds of animation, always provide time t begining with 0 to tell Anikit that the animation is just started, and increase it according to the elapsed time in the following animate-js and animate-three call.

## Building

anikit provides two bundles:
 * JS Bundle - all kits and anikit core function, in one file.
 * CSS Bundle - predefined CSS Animations with ld-[name] structure. will be used to replace loading.css and transition.css.


## Configuration

Anikit object support following configurations:

 * name - animation name
 * repeat - repeat count. 0 for infinite
 * dur - animation duration. default 1s
 * animation-dir - animation direction. default normal
 * origin - origin of animation transformation. default [0.5, 0.5]

Config could be overwritten by options when calling animate function, e.g.,

`
    kit.animate obj, {dur: 2}
`


## TODO

 * following animation from loading.css are still not implemented:
   - spin/flip.ls
   - other/
     - bounce-ltr-alt.ls
     - bounce-rtl-alt.ls
     - bounce-a-alt.ls
     - bounce-a.ls
     - bounce-rtl.ls
     - bounce-ltr.ls
     - slot.ls
     - leaf.ls
 * implement "set-kit" - animation set for operating multiple elements at one time.
 * fully support glsl, perhaps in glslify style


## MISC

 * transform-box: fill-box inconsistent result - seems to be browser bug. 
   following samples give inconsistent result about circle position when scale reaches 0.5, which should be all the same:
   - g(style="animation:scale 1s linear;transform-origin:20px 20px;transform-box:fill-box"): circle(r="20")
     style @keyframes scale { 0% { transform: scale(1); } 100%: {transform: scale(0.5); }}
   - g(style="transform:scale(0.5);transform-origin:20px 20px;transform-box:fill-box"): circle(r="20")
   - g(style="transform:scale(0.5);transform-origin:50%;transform-box:fill-box"): circle(r="20")


## TODO

 * some kits doesn't work in js or webgl context, including:
   - not working
     - blur
     - blur-in / blur-out ( in webgl )
     - float
     - pulse ( not work in webgl )
     - rush-xxx, rush-xxx-in, throw-xxx-in ( not work in webgl )
   - incorrect
     - hit ( y scale not work )
     - jingle ( transform-origin incorrect )
     - orbit ( js wrong rotate diretion )
     - skew, skew-alt ( webgl in wrong direction )
     - slide-xxx, fall-xxx-in, vortex-in ( opacity not work in js / webgl )
     - vortex-in / vortex-out ( opacity not work, direction not the same )
     - wander-h / wander-v ( speed not the same )


## LICENSE

MIT
